first video of making of the drums in
these video series where this is the
first video of will be an accompaniment
to my main blog which is dedicated to
building a drum synthesizer
other scratch drum synthesizer so thing
which creates a drum sound synthetically
one of the famous drum synthesizers are
the roland tr-808 or tr-909 the block
itself you can find in the net under
making of the drum synth dot blog
spot.com this first video is related to
one of the sound modules this
synthesizer will have is the first sound
module I built is the bass drum some
sound module so it's a sound module
which just should emulate a bass drum or
create artificial bass drum sounds so
let's go directly to the test setup we
have here just briefly explained we have
a power supply which converts a nice z
power r AC voltage into plus minus 12
volt this power is used for the analog
part of the circuit then we have a test
signal trigger signal generator which is
just a small atmega8 microprocessor
which was programmed to generate the
sequence of trigger pulses just not to
have just a steady ongoing pulse but to
have some variation to to be able to to
charge how how to mode you both behaved
in the drums synthesizer itself then we
have the bass drum module itself
some operational amplifiers and some
capacitors and so on we have some
potential mate potential mates which
control the sound first of all we have a
tone knob this controls the basic
frequency of the oscillator used then
this one is not really used it's just
for testing purposes then we have the
amount of frequency modulation you will
hear in the sound sample what I mean
with this and we have the length of the
polls itself the gate potential meter
and then we have the frequency
modulation decay envelope this controls
t I will say that the decay of the
frequency the oscillator has when it is
triggered so let's increase the volume
just a little note about how this thing
is connected to the output is directly
connected to my stereo chain just to
have a sound which is unprocessed as
possible for your thing is valid that
you are able to charge the sound quality
of this module without any processing so
let's turn the first not the tone by the
way I started with a bass drum sound
which is already quite common in
electronic music I just played around
with the knobs a little bit before then
frequency modulation around
till now you hear that the pitch is
always decreasing when based on signal
is triggered
fight increase the frequency modulation
amount the page isn't to decrease that
much here's no frequency modulation
because quite a soft sounding bass drum
let's add some again then here we have
the gate pulse you can make the sound
sustain longer this is the longest very
short the end let's just increase the
frequency modulation to show you the
decay of the frequency modulation to
make it very short decrease the
frequency modulation see is able to
create a quite wide variety of sounds
well of course it doesn't really sound
exactly like the bass drum of the tr-808
when I'm in line
I think but well for for a first attempt
it's the first time
we hope you enjoyed the video and
upcoming is the snare drum module which
is already built up and is just just
right now in the middle of testing